# VASP_Neural_Network_dataset_converter Package

This package demonstrates a data processing workflow involving Bash script, Python conversion scripts, which automatically converts multiple VASP OUTCAR data into neural network training format (extxyz or npz).


## Workflow Overview

1. **Bash Script (`hydrostatic_strain_post_processing.sh`):**
   - Takes a user-provided file path, runs over all VASP simulation folders
   - Collect all the required information (energy, force, atomic positions, pressure in eV, lattice parameters)

2. **Python Converter (`lattice.py, energy.py, position_force.py, atom_symbol.py, pressure_eV.py, combine.py`):**
   - Processes the files generated by the Bash script.
   - Outputs the converted npz files.

3. **Final Python Processor (`npz_to_extxyz.py`):**
   - Takes the output from `combine.py` and performs a final operation.
   - Outputs the converted extxyz file.


## Installation and Usage Guide

This guide provides detailed instructions on how to install and use the VASP_Neural_Network_dataset_converter package.

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.6 or later
- Pip (Python package manager)

### Installation
1. **Download the Package:**
   - Download the zip file containing the VASP_Neural_Network_dataset_converter package.
   - Extract the zip file to a directory of your choice.

2. **Install the Package:**
   - Open a command prompt or terminal.
   - Navigate to the directory where you extracted the package.
   - Install the package by running the command:
     ```
     pip install .
     ```
   This command installs the package along with its dependencies.


### Using the Package

To use this package, run the Bash script with an input file, then pass the output file path to the Python scripts:

```bash
# Go to scripts folder ---> hydrostatic_strain_post_processing.sh, change the following line according to your simulation range
for EXX in $(seq -0.003 0.001 0.003); do
```

```python
# Provide the folder path of VASP simulations in 'process_and_run_script.py'
process_and_run_script(r'Folder path')


# Go to atom_symbol.py and change the atom types
    # Create the array with atomic numbers
    Al_count = 8  #Al
    O_count = 12   #O

    # Create an array with 'Al' symbols followed by other elements
    atom_array = np.concatenate([np.full(Al_count, 'Al'), np.full(O_count, 'O')])

# Run the process_and_run_script.py script using any code runner
python3 process_and_run_script.py

```

```python
# change the index_line in 'lattice.py': 2 for inplane/2D strains; 3 for hydrostratic/3D strains
# Defalut: if len(index_line) == 3 (hydrostatic strain)
        if len(index_line) == 3:              #3 for -0.05 -0.05 -0.05   2 for -0.05 -0.05
```

### Example Usage

An example dataset is given in 'example_dataset' folder. You can use the following commands to play with that.

```python
# change the folder path
process_and_run_script(r'FOLDER_PATH\example_dataset\hydrostatic_strain')

# execute the python wrapper
python3 process_and_run_script.py
```

## Citing This Work
If you use this software in your research, please cite the following paper:

[Your Paper Title](link to your paper)
Author Name. "Title of Your Paper." Journal/Conference, Year.

BibTeX entry:
@article{YourPaper,
  title={Title of Your Paper},
  author={Your Name},
  journal={Journal/Conference},
  year={2024},
  publisher={Publisher}
}

